
Almost every useful program involve some kind of text processing
whether it is data or generating output. 
Here we discuss about challenges involving text manipulation **`searching`, `substitution`,
`lexing`, `parsing`** etc.

:rotating_light: Many of these problems can be easily solved with **built-in** methods.
While more complicated operations might require the use of **regular expressions**.

## 2.1: Splitting string on any of multiple delimeters

???+ danger "Problem"
    You need to split the string into fields but the **delimiters**
    (and the space around them) aren't consistent throughtout the string.

???+ done "Solution"
    The **`str.split()`** method of string objects is really meant for **very simple use cases**
    and **doesn't** allow for multiple _delimiters_. 

    :rotating_light: In case you need a bit more flexibility use **`re.split()`** instead as shown below.

    ```python
    import re
    
    line = "vinay kumar, ram; lakshmi,           devi         anil-kumar-ram"
    
    re.split(r"[;,-\s]\s*", line)   
    ## ["vinay", "kumar", "ram", "lakshmi", "devi", "anil", "kumar", "ram"]
    ```
    Here in the above `re.split(r"[;,-\s]\s*", line)` the delimiter is either a 
    _semi-colon_ (`;`), a _comma_ (`,`), a _hyphen_ (`-`), a single _space_ (` `) or
    any of these followed by any number of _spaces_.

???+ quote "Discussion"
    The **`re.split()`** is useful because you can specify multiple patterns for the _delimiter_.
    In the above solution using `re.split()`, the separator/delimiter is either 
    a _semi-colon_ (`;`), a _comma_ (`,`), a _hyphen_ (`-`), a single _space_ (` `) or
    any of these followed by any number of _spaces_. Whenever that pattern is found,
    the entire match becomes a delimiter between whatever fileds lie on either side of the match.

    :trophy: The result is **list** of fileds just like **`str.split()`**
    
    :rotating_light: When using `re.split()`, you need to be a bit careful **if the regular expression
    involves a _capture group_ enclosed in parenthesis**. If **capture groups** are used, then the 
    matched text (i.e. the delimiter/separator) is also included in the result as shown below.

    ```python
    import re

    line = "vinay kumar, ram; lakshmi,           devi         anil-kumar-ram"
    
    fields = re.split(r"(;|,|-|\s)\s*", line)
    
    print(fields)
    ## ["vinay", " ", "kumar", ",", "ram", ";", "laksmi", ",", "devi", " ", "anil", "-", "kumar", "-", "ram"]
    ```
    
    Getting the split characters / delimiters / separators might be useful in certain contexts.
    For example, you may want ot use the split characters later on to reform the output string.

    ```python
    values = fields[::2]                ## ["vinay", "kumar", "ram", "lakshmi", "devi", "anil", "kumar", "ram"]
    delimiters = fields[1::2] + [""]    ## [" ", ",", ";", "-", " ", "-", "-", ""]
    
    ## reform the line using the same delimiters
    "".join(v+d for v, d in zip(values, delimiters))    ## "vinay kumar,ram;lakshmi,devi anil-kumar-ram"
    ```
    
    :rotating_light: If you don't want the separator/delimiter to be in the result list
    but still need to use the **parenthesis** `()` to group parts of the regular expression pattern;
    then use a **non-capture group** specified by **`(?:...)`** as shown below.

    ```python
    re.split(r"(?:;|,|-|\s)\s*", line)  ## ["vinay", "kumar", "ram", "lakshmi", "devi", "anil", "kumar", "ram"]
    ```
<!-- ######################################################################################################### -->
